This script is designed to be run with manual user input and an environment
such as Rgui, RStudio, or similar is suggested. It is not adapted for batch
or command-line scripting.

OVERVIEW:
This script converts PSM results produduced by Morpheus From Another Place
(MFAP) into protein-level results, with manual FDR control. The first half of
the script takes PSM results (from the MFAP '.PSMs.tsv' output file), excludes
spectra outside of the user-specified q-value range, and produces a plot of 
q-value as a function of spectral index. The plot identifies 10 inflection points
that can be used as cutoff points to further control for FDR. This plot allows
the user to manually examine the data and consider tradeoffs between spectrum
quality and quantity. 

In the second part of the script, the user selects one of the 10 cutoff points 
based on the plot, and inputs this as a number from 1 to 10. This is done by manually
changing the value of the CutoffPoint variable. The script subsets the data to
this cutoff, then compiles spectral results into protein-level ones. The script 
also calculates protein-level statistics such as protein FDR and the number of 
spectra for each protein. 

For MIKE results, the key number is the log2 ratio of 18O/16O versions of
a given peptide, which gives the relative abundance of that peptide between two
samples. MFAP gives this number at the peptide level. The script converts this 
to the protein level as the median of log2 (18O/16O) for all peptides of that
protein. For error analysis the script also calculates the std deviation and
std error (calculated as stdev/(#pepides/protein)^1/2). The script also calculates
a normalized median log2 18O/16O to allow the user to compare between multiple runs.
The normalization is done by subtracting the median of all protein-level log2 18O/16O
ratios from the value for each protein.This corrects for spurious trends that 
may accumulate. In high-quality, 1:1 mixed results, the normalization factor 
should remain near 0.

OUTPUT:  
This script produces 4 files in the same directory as the input filename.
filename_cutoff_info.tsv : text file. Spectral-level fdr info about plot
	cutoff points. 
filename_cutoff_plot.pdf : Pdf copy of the plot produced by the first half 
	of script.
filename_protein_output.tsv : Protein-level tab-delimited results file. 
filename_summary.tsv : Summary information about the protein level data: 
	# passed spectra, # proteins, protein-level fdrs,normalization factor


NOTES/TROUBLESHOOTING: Make sure you have all required packages installed: 
BioPhysConnectoR and plyr. Required user inputs are the filename and directory 
where the MFAP .PSMs.tsv results file is stored, and the cutoff point for the second 
half of the script.

CREDITS: This was created by Daniel Muratore and Adriana Rizzo in 2016. For any issues
contact Adriana Rizzo at adrizzo@uchicago.edu